A Curious Herbal. Containing Five Hunderd Cuts of the most useful Plants, which are now used in the Practice of Physick.
By Elizabeth Blackwell.

To Richard Mead M.D. Physician in Ordinary to his Majesty and Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of London, and fellow of the Royal Society.
Sir,
As the World is indebted to the Encouragers of every Publick Good, if the following Undertaking should prove such, it is but justice to declare who have been the chief Promoters of it, and as you was the first who advis'd its Publication, and honour'd it with your Name, give me Leave to tell the Readers how much they are in your Debt for this Work, and to acknowledge the Honour of your Friendship. I am Sir with great Respect your most obliged humble Servant
Elizabeth Blackwell.
Chelsea the 14th of July 1737

INTRODUCTION
The Undertaker, being desirous to make this Work more useful to such as are not furnished with other Herbals, is resolved (for their Sake) to give a short Description of each Plant, the Place of Growth, and Time of Flowering with its common uses in Physick, chiefly extracted from Mr. Joseph Miller’s Botanicum Officinale with his Consent; and the ordinary Names of the Plant in different Languages.
------
Plate 1. Dandelion, or Piss-a-bed. Dens Leonis.
1. The Leaves of this plant lie on the Ground; the Pedikels or Pipes on which the Flowers grow are about six or eight Inches high; and the Flowers yellow. The Root grows about a Finger thick, and eight Inches long, full of a white bitter Milk.
2. It grows almost every where in Fallow Ground & flowers most Months in the Year.
3. The Roots & Leaves are used as cooling aperative provoking Urine, & strengthening the Stomach, and are much eat as a Salad in the Spring.
4. Greek, Αϕακα. Latin, Dens Leonis, Taraxacum. Spanish, Diente de Leon. Italian, Dente di lane and Pisicia al letto. French, Dens de Lyon, or Pisse en lict. German, Pfaffenblatt & Runnichstopff. Dutch, Papencruyt[?].
------
Plate 2. Red, Wild, or lorn Poppy. Papaver rubrum.
1. This Plant grows to be 2 Foor high, the Leaves are a WIllow-green, & the Flowers Scarlet.
2. It grows in most Corn-fields, and flowers in June and July.
3. The Flowers of this Poppy are cooling, incline to Sleep, & much used in inflammatory Fevers. Officinal Preparations from it are, the simple Water, the Syrup, the Conserve of the flowers & the Tincture.
4. Greek, Μήκωρ ογίας. Latin, Papaver rubrum, erraticum rhoeas. Spanish, Amapollis, or Papoulla. Italian, Papavero Salvaticho. French, Pavot Sauvage, or confanons. German, Clapper Rosen, or Corn Rosen. Dutch, Rooden huel.
------
Plate 3. Mullein or Hig-Taper. Verbascum or Sabsus barbatus
1. It grows to be six Foot high, the Leaves are a light Willow-green, & the Flowers a pale Yellow.
2. They grow on Highways and Commons, and flower in July.
3. The Leaves are used for Coughs, Pains in the Breast and Collic-Pains, & outwardly in Fomentations, and are thought a specific against the Piles. Discorides recommends a Decoction of the Root as good for Tooth-ach.
4. Greek Φλόμσ. Latin, Verbascum, or Tapis barbatus. Spanish Gordolobo or Verbasco. Italian, Tasso barbasso. French, Bouillon. German, Beiss Bullaraut. Dutch, Wolle kruyt.
------
Plate 4. Garden Cucumber, Cucumis Sativus.
1. This Plant trails on the Ground, the Leaves are a Yellow green, & the Flowers a pale Yellow.
2. It is raised from the Seed yearly; & flowers, & bears Fruit for several Months in the Summer.
3. The Seed is used for the Stone, Strangury, heat of Urine, burning Fevers and Plurisies. Disscorides says, the Fruit chears decayed Spirits; and recommends the Leaves boiled with Wine, and mixed with Honey, as a cure for the Bite of a Dog.
4. Greek, Σίκυς ΰμεογς. Latin, Cucumis Sativus, vulgaris. Spanish, Cogombro. Italian, Cocomero. French, Cocombre. German, Cucumera. Dutch, Concomeren.
------
Plate 5. Shepherd's Purse, Bursa Pastoris.
1. The lower Leaves lie flat upon the Ground; the Stalk grows about a Foot high, and the Flowers are White.
2. It grows among Rubbish Banks and Walls, and flowers all the Summer.
3. This Plant is esteemed cooling, restringent, incrassating, & good in all sorts of Fluxes & spitting of Blood, bleeding at the Nose; the too great Flux of the Catamenia, violent Floodings, & bloody Urine
4. Greek, [blank] Latin Bursa Pastoris, or Thlapsi fatuum. Italian, Bursa Pastoris. French, Bourse a Pasteur, or Bourse de Berger. German, Sectelcraut, Secfel, or Zeschellcraut. Dutch, Borse kens cruyt.
------
Plate 6. Wild Tansie, or Silver-weed. Argentina or Potentilla.
1. This Plant creeps upon the Ground, emising Fibers from the Joints, by which it roots in the Earth and spreads; the Leaves are a light green covered as it were with a silver Down, and the Flowers yellow.
2. It grows in moist barren Ground where Water has stood all the Winter & flowers commonly in May or June.
3. The Leaves are restringent and volnerary, good to stop all kinds of Fluxes & preternatural Evacuations; to dissolve coagulated Blood, to help those who are bruised by Falls; outwardly it is used as a Cosmetic to take off Freckles, Sun-burn and Morphen and it is good in restringent Gargarisms.
4. Greek, [blenk]. Latin, Argentina Potentilla, Tanacetum agreste. Italian, Potentilla. French, L'Argentine Sauvage, or Tanesie Sauvage. German, Genserich, Grensich, or Grensing. Dutch, Silvercruyt.
------
Plate 7. Rue, Ruta.
1. The Leaves are a Willow-green, and the Flowers yellow; the Stalks grow about two Foot high.
2. It is planted in Gardens, and flowers in June and July.
3. The Leaves and Seed are used, being esteem'd alexipharmic, good against all infections and pestilential Diseases, and all kind of Fevers; it eases Disorders of the Head, Nerves, Womb, convulsion and Histeric Fits, the Collick, Weakness of the Stomach and Bowels, it repells Poison, and Cures the Bite of venemous Creatures and mad Dogs. It is an Ingredient in the Aqua Brion, compa, and the Agua Theriacalis. The officinal Preparations are the simple Water, Conserve of the Leaves, and an Oil by Decoction.
4. Greek, Πήγανον. Latin, Ruta & Ruta hortensis major. Spanish, Aruda. Italian, Ruta. French, Rut. German, Rauten or Beincraut. Dutch, Ruyte.
-----
Plate 8. Wild Rose or Briar Rose. Rosa Canina.
1. The Leaves are a darker green than the Garden-rose; and the FLowers are sometimes white, but oftener a pale Red.
2. It grows in Hedges, & Flowers in June & July. The Hips are fit to gather the latter End of September. On the Stalks of this Bush the Bedeguar grows, which is a redish green spongy hairy Excressence, made by small Ichneumon Flies. See Ray's Catalogue of the Plants about Cambridge, p. 140.
3. The Flowers of this Rose are thought more restringent than the Garden. Some look upon them as a specific for the Excess of the Catamenia. The Pulp of the Hips strengthens the Stomach, cools the Heat of Fevers, is pectoral, good for Coughs, spitting of Blood and the Scurvy. The Seed is good against the Stone and Gravel. The Bedeguar is said to have the same Virtues. The officinal Preparation is the Conserva Cynosbati.
4. Greek, Κυνόσϐατον, ρόσον άγριον or Κυνόρροδον. Latin, Rosa Canina, or Rosa Sylvestris. French, Le Rosier, or l'Eglantier Sauvage. German, Bilderosen or Hectrosen. Dutch, Eglantier.
------
Plate 9. Wood Sage, Salvia agrestris or Scorodonia.
1. This Plant grows to be two Foot high; its Leaves are greener and broader than the Garden Sage; the Flowers are yellow, with purple Stamina.
2. It grows in Hedges and bushy Places, and flowers in July and August.
3. It is Esteemed good for the Gout, Rheumatism, Scurvy & Dropsy; provoking Urine & the Menses; it is an Excellent vulnerary Plant, preventing Mortifications & Gangreens.
4. Greek Σκρόδιον.Latin Scordium, Salvia agrestris, Scorodonia. Spanish, Scordio. Italian, Scordio. French, Chamaraz. German, Basserbatenig, or Knoblochscraut.
------
Plate 10. Sage, Salvia.
1. It is planted in Gardens, the Leaves are sometimes a hoary Green, & sometimes a reddish Purple; the Flowers are a bluish Purple; and grows about 18 Inches high.
2. It gres best in dry sharp Ground, and flowers in May and June.
3. The Leaves and Flowers are used, as good for all Diseases of the Head and Nerves; they are also diuretic, and good for Obstructions of Urine; and much used in all Sorts of Fevers, in Tea or Posset Drink.
Greek Ελελίσφακς. Latin, Salvia and Salvia hortensis major. Spanish, Salvia and Salva. Italian, Salvia. French, Saulges. German, Salben. Dutch, [blank]
